Build Safe, Secure and Reliable Embedded Systems
BlackBerry® QNX® provides the operating systems, hypervisors(A hypervisor, also known as a virtual machine monitor or VMM, is software that creates and runs virtual machines (VMs). A hypervisor allows one host computer to support multiple guest VMs by virtually sharing its resources, such as memory and processing.) , tools, services and support you need to build critical embedded systems.

Our focus on new feature releases, safety certifications and security updates allows you to focus on innovation instead of keeping up with 
OS maintenance and updates.
QNX Neutrino RTOS
QNX Hypervisor
QNX Software Development Platform


QNX OS for Safety
Built on the same microkernel architecture as the QNX Neutrino RTOS, the QNX® OS for Safety is pre-certified to IEC 61508, ISO 26262 and 
IEC 62304. Easily port Linux-based prototypes to the QNX multi-core, real-time OS (RTOS) and get all the documentation and support you
need for certification efforts.


QNX Hypervisor for Safety
This real-time microkernel hypervisor provides the reliability and performance of the QNX operating system, and enables multiple OSs
to safely operate in isolation on the same SoC. It is the first embedded hypervisor pre-certified to ISO 26262 ASIL D.

QNX Black Channel Communications Technology
Designed to meet or exceed the highest functional safety standards and certified to ISO 26262 ASIL D, this solution uses a black channel 
approach to ensure that communication exchanges are safe and that data is not altered or impacted during transmission.



QNX Neutrino Real-Time
Operating System (RTOS)
Proven reliability, performance, security.

QNX Neutrino RTOS 7.1
Since 1980, thousands of companies have deployed QNX® real-time operating systems to ensure the ideal combination of performance, 
security and reliability in mission-critical systems. At the core of QNX technology is the QNX® Neutrino®
Real-Time Operating System (RTOS), a fully featured RTOS enabling next-generation products in every industry
where reliability matters, including automotive, medical devices, robotics, transportation and industrial embedded systems.

Microkernel Reliability
The QNX Neutrino RTOS microkernel isolates every application, driver, protocol stack and filesystem in its own 
address space outside the kernel. A failed component won’t take down other components or the kernel; it can be 
restarted immediately, with minimal impact on performance.

Add new hardware or drivers, confident a driver failure won’t result in a system failure.
A high-availability manager can perform multistage recovery when services or processes fail.
Our architecture enabled us to safety-certify QNX® OS for Safety, so you can focus on what you build—not the OS 
you built it on.

https://blackberry.qnx.com/en/products/foundation-software/qnx-rtos


Real-Time Availability
System resources are available when needed and tasks complete when they are supposed to.

Designed to scale on the newest ARM and x86 multicore systems on a chip (SoCs), the QNX Neutrino RTOS supports 
asymmetric multiprocessing and symmetric multiprocessing (SMP), as well as bound multiprocessing, a
QNX improvement on standard SMP.
Our adaptive partitioning enables critical processes to get the CPU cycles they need. You configure 
time partitions, so that processes that need additional power can access unused cycles from other 
processes’ budgets.

Comprehensive, Layered Security
Easily configure security profiles with the granularity you need for your systems, as well as monitor 
and audit their integrity. 

The QNX Neutrino RTOS’s comprehensive, layered approach to security allows you to implement exactly 
the security protocols you need to mitigate threats and harden your systems:

Granular control of system privilege levels; encrypted and self-verifying filesystems. Implementing
AES 256 encryption and lockable encryption domains.
Secure logging of system activities.
Heap, stack and memory protection.
Secure boot implementing TPM and TrustZone.
